On Nov. 10, MIT’s team of student coders made history by winning the globe’s oldest, largest, and most prestigious programming contest — the world finals of the International Collegiate Programming Contest (ICPC). Held in Dhaka, Bangladesh, the 45th world finals drew a live audience of over 1,600 viewers to the tense 12-problem competition, which featured 420 contestants representing 140 universities across 45 nations.

The first ICPC World Finals was held in 1977, and the second (in 1978) was won by MIT — followed by many, many years of close misses for the team from Cambridge. Team faculty sponsor Martin Rinard, professor of computer science and engineering in MIT’s Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS) says that the team has come close to winning numerous times since he took over leadership of the team in 1997. That includes five gold medals, five silver medals, three bronze medals and two second-place finishes. But he considers this performance particularly special.

Winning the championship resulted from the work of many, including Senior Administrative Assistant Mary McDavitt, who dealt with the daunting logistics involved in sending a team of undergraduates halfway around the world, as well as student coaches Ce Jin and Yinzhan Xu, both PhD students in EECS, who helped select the best team to represent MIT. That team is composed of Xiao Mao ’21 MEng ’22, who has degrees in both computer science and engineering and in mathematics; Jerry Mao, a senior in computer science and engineering; and Mingyang Deng, a junior in computer science and engineering. (Deng also recently competed in and won the 2022 North American Championships of the ICPC, clinching eligibility to attend the 46th annual ICPC World Finals next year.)
